Add a new Slackbot example (#489)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/python/examples/deploy-tracker-slackbot.md

---
displayed_sidebar: examplesSidebar
sidebar_position: 40
title: Deployment Tracking Slackbot
---

In this example, we use DBOS and [Bolt](https://slack.dev/bolt-python) to build a Slackbot that helps you trigger deployments and track deployment pipeline progress directly from Slack. It listens to commands such as `/deploy` and `/check_status` in a Slack channel and posts status updates back to the channel.

This app demonstrates how DBOS enables:

* **Asynchronous background workflows** for each deployment. Slack requires you to respond to events within [3 seconds](https://api.slack.com/apis/events-api#retries), but deployment workflows often take much longer.

> * **Concurrency control using queues** configured with a concurrency limit of 1, so only one deployment runs at a time. This is critical when working with limited resources or rate-limited APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Concurrency control using queues**. In this example, the deployment pipeline utilizes a queue with a concurrency limit of 1, so only 1 deployment can run at a time.
```

> * **Real-time status updates** via DBOS events, showing custom progress as each step finishes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Real-time status updates** via DBOS events, allowing you to monitor the progress of your deployment pipelines.
```

> * **Durable execution** making sure a deployment resumes from where it left off even if the Slackbot crashes or restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Durable execution** making sure an application deployment resumes from where it left off even if the Slackbot crashes or restarts.
```

It contains three steps: build, test, and deploy. When the workflow starts, it notifies the Slack channel and updates the status to "started". Then, after each step finishes, it updates its status using `DBOS.set_event` so users can query deployment progress.
After all steps are complete, it sends a final Slack message to the channel.

```python
@DBOS.workflow()
def deploy_tracker_workflow(user_id: str, channel_id: str):
    post_slack_message(
        message=f"Deployment workflow {DBOS.workflow_id} started.", channel=channel_id
    )
    # Use DBOS's built-in event tracking to mark deployment status
    DBOS.set_event("deploy_status", "started")

    # Additional steps for deployment can be added here
    build_step(channel_id)
    DBOS.set_event("deploy_status", "build_completed")

    test_step(channel_id)
    DBOS.set_event("deploy_status", "tests_completed")

    deploy_step(channel_id)
    DBOS.set_event("deploy_status", "deployed")

    post_slack_message(
        message=f"Deployment workflow {DBOS.workflow_id} completed successfully. <@{user_id}> :tada:",
        channel=channel_id,
    )
```

## Deployment Steps

> Each step in the workflow performs a task and posts a Slack message to the channel to update progress.

Reviewer: Remove these steps from the docs entirely as they're all fake code
